---
deltaDoc: true
version: '1.5.0'
---
# 1.5.0 Change Notes

## Upgrade to TypeScript 3.6.2

- This version now uses TypeScript version 3.6.2. It is recommended that consumers of iModel.js packages upgrade to that version too.

## Display system enhancements

### Performance enhancements

- Made display system enhancement for rendering directly to screen. This significantly improves performance on iOS and some non-Chrome browsers. For models that aren't bound by primitive count, this can be a more than doubling of FPS.
  - To enable this enhancement, see `RenderSystem.Options.directScreenRendering`.

## Blank IModelConnections

- The new method `IModelConnection.createBlank` provides a way for applications to create an `IModelConnection` that is not connected to an iModel or a backend. This is useful for using iModel.js to show *just* Reality data (reality meshes, point clouds, terrain, etc.), background maps, and other non-iModel-based graphics without requiring a backend server.
- There is also a new convenience method [SpatialViewState.createBlank](https://www.imodeljs.org/v1/reference/imodeljs-frontend/imodelconnection/imodelconnection/#createblank) to create a *blank* spatial view appropriate for these non-iModel based visualizations. See the [Blank Connection]($docs/learning/frontend/BlankConnection.md) learning article for further details.

## Favorite Properties

### Summary

- Favorite properties manager stores favorite properties and determines whether a given field should be displayed as favorite.
- `PresentationPropertyDataProvider` puts all favorite properties into an additional 'Favorite' category that's displayed
at the top and is auto-expanded.

### Details

- `FavoritePropertyManager` (accessed through singleton `Presentation.favoriteProperties`) in `@itwin/presentation-frontend`
  - `add(field: Field): void`
    - For `PropertiesField` and `NestedContentField` - marks all properties in the field as favorite.
    - For other types of fields - marks the field as favorite by its name.
  - `remove(field: Field): void`
    - For `PropertiesField` and `NestedContentField` - removes all properties in the field from favorites list.
    - For other types of fields - removes the field from favorites list.
  - `has(field: Field): boolean`
    - For `PropertiesField` and `NestedContentField` - returns true if field contains at least one favorite property.
    - For other types of fields - returns true if field's name is in the favorites list.
  - `onFavoritesChanged: BeEvent<() => void>`
    - Event that's raised when favorite properties change.

- `ContentDataProvider` (base of `PresentationPropertyDataProvider` and `PresentationTableDataProvider`) in `@itwin/presentation-components`
  - `getFieldByPropertyRecord(propertyRecord: PropertyRecord): Promise<Field | undefined>`
    - Returns a field object that was used to create the given `PropertyRecord`. The field contains meta-data about the properties whose values are stored in the `PropertyRecord`.

### Usage example

```ts
// needs to be called once before working with `Presentation` API
Presentation.initialize();

<...>

private _onAddFavorite = (propertyField: Field) => {
  Presentation.favoriteProperties.add(propertyField);
  this.setState({ contextMenu: undefined });
}
private _onRemoveFavorite = (propertyField: Field) => {
  Presentation.favoriteProperties.remove(propertyField);
  this.setState({ contextMenu: undefined });
}

private async buildContextMenu(args: PropertyGridContextMenuArgs) {
  const field = await this.state.dataProvider.getFieldByPropertyRecord(args.propertyRecord);
  const items: ContextMenuItemInfo[] = [];
  if (field !== undefined) {
    if (Presentation.favoriteProperties.has(field)) {
      items.push({
        key: "remove-favorite",
        onSelect: () => this._onRemoveFavorite(field),
        title: "Add this property to Favorite category",
        label: "Add to Favorite",
      });
    } else {
      items.push({
        key: "add-favorite",
        onSelect: () => this._onAddFavorite(field),
        title: "Remove this property from Favorite category",
        label: "Remove from Favorite",
      });
    }
  }
}
```

## Geometry

### Summary

- PolyfaceQuery method to partition by connectivity
- Optimize triangle flipping
- `PolyfaceQuery.cutFill` uses GriddedRaggedRange2dSet (rather than prior `LinearSearchRange2dGrid`)

### Details

- `PolyfaceQuery` methods
  - (static) `PolyfaceQuery.partitionFacetIndicesByEdgeConnectedComponent(polyface: Polyface | PolyfaceVisitor): number[][]`
    - Return arrays of facet indices
    - Within each array, each facet has an edge in common with others in the same array.
  - (static) `PolyfaceQuery.partitionFacetIndicesByVertexConnectedComponent(polyface: Polyface | PolyfaceVisitor): number[][]`
    - Return arrays of facet indices
    - Within each array, each facet has (at least) a vertex in common with others in the same array.
  - (static) `PolyfaceQuery.clonePartitions(polyface: Polyface | PolyfaceVisitor, partitions: number[][]): Polyface[]`
    - Return an array of polyfaces
    - Each polyface has all the facets from one of the input facet index arrays.
  - `PolyfaceVisitor`
    - `myVisitor.setNumWrap (numWrap: number)`
      - set numWrap for subsequent visits.
  - `PolyfaceBuilder`
    - `myBuilder.reversed: boolean`
      - read property to query the state controlled by `myBuilder.toggleReversedFlag`
      - Carry `twoSided` flag through polyface builder actions.
  - `PolyfaceQuery`
    - (static) `PolyfaceQuery.partitionFacetIndicesByVertexConnectedComponent(polyface: Polyface | PolyfaceVisitor): number[][]`
  - `UnionFindContext`
    - New class to implement the UnionFind algorithm on a set of integers.
  - Classes for 2d range searching.
    - `RangeLengthData, UsageSums` -- carrier interface for computing average range sizes.
    - `LinearSearchRange2dArray` -- array of Range2d for linear search.
    - `GriddedRaggedRange2dSet` -- grid of LinearSearchRange2dArray
    - `GriddedRaggedRange2dSetWithOverflow` -- GriddedRaggedRange2dSet for typical ranges, `LinearSearchRange2dArray` for larger overflow ranges.
