---
publish: false
---
# NextVersion

## Simplified material creation

[RenderSystem.createMaterial]($frontend) presents an awkward API requiring the instantiation of several related objects to create even a simple [RenderMaterial]($common). It also requires an [IModelConnection]($frontend). It has been deprecated in favor of [RenderSystem.createRenderMaterial]($frontend), which accepts a single [CreateRenderMaterialArgs]($frontend) object concisely specifying only the properties of interest to the caller. For example, the following:

```ts
  const params = new RenderMaterial.Params();
  params.alpha = 0.5;
  params.diffuseColor = ColorDef.blue;
  params.diffuse = 0.4;

  const mapParams = new TextureMapping.Params({ textureWeight: 0.25 });
  params.textureMapping = new TextureMapping(texture, mapParams);
  const material = IModelApp.renderSystem.createMaterial(params, iModel);
```

Can now be expressed as follows (note no IModelConnection is required):

```ts
  const material = IModelApp.renderSystem.createRenderMaterial({
    alpha: 0.5,
    diffuse: { color: ColorDef.blue, weight: 0.4 },
    textureMapping: { texture, weight: 0.25 },
  });
```
## Model map layers

  Map layers can now be generated from models.  Previously map layers were limited to images generated by tile servers.  Model Map layers  allow 2D models to be assimilated with aerial photography and other map layers and to be projected correctly to the terrain surface.  Map Model Layer geometry can be selected and queried in the same manner as conventional model geometry.  Display of categories within a model map layer within a view are also controlled in the same manner as conventional map geometry, turning off the category in the view will turn it off in the map layer for that view.

  [MapLayerProps]($common) has been split into [ImageMapLayerProps]($common) and [ModelMapLayerProps]($common) to differentiate properties the previously supported image layers and the new model layers. [MapLayerSettings]($common) has been split into [ImageMapLayerSettings]($common) and [ModelMapLayerSettings]($common) in a similar manner.  Applications can continue to attach map layers through [DisplayStyleState.attachMapLayer]($frontend).

