# Change Log - @itwin/imodel-components-react

This log was last generated on Wed, 06 Apr 2022 22:27:56 GMT and should not be manually modified.

## 3.1.2
Wed, 06 Apr 2022 22:27:56 GMT

_Version update only_

## 3.1.1
Thu, 31 Mar 2022 15:55:48 GMT

_Version update only_

## 3.1.0
Tue, 29 Mar 2022 20:53:47 GMT

### Updates

- Required updates based on @itwin/core-quantity format type definition related changes.
- Add pointer cursor for ColorPicker close button.
- whitespace change
- Replace use of Context menu in Timeline with DropdownMenu.
- Update to itwinui-css version "0.44.0".
- Update to @itwin/itwinui-react: 1.32.0
- Update to latest itwinui-react.

## 3.0.3
Fri, 25 Mar 2022 15:10:02 GMT

_Version update only_

## 3.0.2
Thu, 10 Mar 2022 21:18:13 GMT

_Version update only_

## 3.0.1
Thu, 24 Feb 2022 15:26:55 GMT

### Updates

- Avoid processing stale viewstates that reference closed imodels.

## 3.0.0
Mon, 24 Jan 2022 14:00:52 GMT

### Updates

- The Cartographic creation API now takes an interface as an argument with named properties. This will avoid callers mixing up the order of longitude, latitude, and height.
- Update colorpicker to support RGB input
- Upgrade target to ES2019 and deliver both a CommonJs and ESModule version of package
- rename to @itwin/imodel-components-react
- Replace usage of I18N with generic Localization interface.
- Remove deprecate QuantityFormatter methods
- Update snapshots
- tool.run and tool.parseAndRun are now async methods
- Deprecate obsolete code.
- Create empty frontstage and UiItemsProviders to populate it and update how ContentGroups are defined.
-  update immer to fix security warning
- Deprecate and promote apis
- Deprecate obsolete APIs. Publish beta APIs from last release.
- Upgraded itwinui-react to 1.16.2. Fixed editor sizes.
- Remove files generated by bad merge
- Update disabled styling for QuantityNumberInput.
- Allow widgets supplied by a UiItemsProvider to specify a default state of floating.
- Replace ColorPickerPanel with ColorPicker from itwinui-react
- Clean up css for status bar entries to avoid unwanted text wrapping
- Rename ui directories to match new package names.
- Deprecated Task/Workflow. Promoted AccuDraw UI to @beta. Added AccuDraw and NavigationAids learning docs.
- Created imodel-components folder & package and moved color, lineweight, navigationaids, quantity, timeline & viewport. Deprecated MessageSeverity in ui-core & added it ui-abstract. Added MessagePresenter interface to ui-abstract.
- Remove react 16 peer dependency.
- Remove itwinUi css overrides.
- UiFramework and UiIModelComponent initialize method no longer take localization argument, uses IModelApp.localization internally.
- Add the ability for an app to mark a specific date on the rail of a TimelineComponent.
- Update to latest types/react package
- Update ViewportComponent to function component that properly processes async method to get viewstate.
- Lock down and update version numbers so docs will build.

